[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LILOU MACE: Hello, my
delicious co-creators.
Lilou here.
I'm in Montreal in beautiful
Quebec that is not snowy
but actually it's still
quite cold with Jean-Charles.
Hello.
>>JEAN-CHARLES
CHABOT: Hello, Lilou.
How are you?
>>LILOU: I'm very excited to
do this interview with you.
Very different.
>>LILOU: I'm very,
very excited as well.
>>LILOU: Yeah, so you're
a hypnotherapist, right?
>>CHABOT: That's correct.
>>LILOU: But you're a
little bit specialized.
I want to discover your
entire world and everything
that you because I think
hypnotherapy, as we had just
discussed, actually
was malleable.
Scientists are more and
more interested into it.
There's a lot of
research being done.
So I want to hear
everything about everything.
What is the most striking thing
to know about hypnotherapy,
first of all?
>>CHABOT: Well, basically
with hypnotherapy,
you basically connect with
this person's unconscious.
OK?
So it's establishing
a communication
with the unconscious
mind to make some changes
to re-access information
from the past.
You can really help people.
There's, for example,
medical hypnosis
or developmental hypnosis.
There's for fun stage hypnosis.
And there's also
therapy-- hypnotherapy.
So there's different aspects.
You can do a lot of
stuff with hypnosis.
But what's really
interesting for me
is to access past lives or
the spiritual aspect of it
because basically
I'm specialized
in three aspects of hypnosis.
I do street hypnosis.
I don't know if you've
seen some of my videos.
No?
>>LILOU: Street hypnosis?
No, I have not.
>>CHABOT: Like, look at me.
No, I'm kidding.
[LAUGHING]
>>CHABOT: So it's basically to
do hypnosis anywhere anytime.
I prefer to call it
impromptu hypnosis
because it's to give people an
experience of what hypnosis is
and to give positive
suggestions because there's
a lot of misconceptions
about hypnosis.
A lot of misconceptions.
And basically why I
specialize in this
is to become very good at it
because when you see clients
it may last an hour and a
half, two hours, sometimes
three hours.
When you do in between
lives, hypnosis
which we'll have
a chance to talk.
So you don't see
as many clients.
But when you go in the streets
and you just meet people
and you say, hey, do you
believe and in hypnosis?
Do you want to try something?
Usually it's a group of people.
We do stuff and then
they're convinced.
And it practices-- it
gives me practice for that.
So I specialize in what we
call impromptu hypnosis.
I also do hypnotherapy.
So using hypnosis to
help people get better.
It can have to do
with phobias, or it
can be like stop
smoking, stuff like that.
It can be emotion,
like self confidence.
It can touch a lot
of different fields.
And then there's the
spiritual hypnosis side,
which is my specialty
with past life
and in between lives--
regression-- where we connect
not only with what
happens in the past
but where we go once
we, basically, die.
>>LILOU: Why is it so important
to access our subconscious?
What is there?
What is stored?
What do you find out?
Is that our connection to the
spiritual side of ourselves?
>>CHABOT: Well, the
unconscious is very wide.
We could say, like,
there's the unconscious.
I mean, there's different
authors using different terms.
You can have the unconscious.
Everything that is, for example,
like the functions of the heart
beating, controlling
the cells, all of this.
Like, there's a part of us
controlling that in some ways.
There's an intelligence.
And there's a subconscious
we could say is, basically,
the recorder of all
the programmings
that we've had like if we've
had parents telling you,
oh, your stupid.
You're no good.
You're this and that.
Then you record this as beliefs
as patterns or conditionings,
which impacts your life.
So hypnotherapy has a lot
to change concerning beliefs
that we integrated
from society, media,
parents when we're young.
And then there's also
what is really interesting
and that's why with Mario
Beauregard we're even gonna--
there's a workshop that's going
to be based on this to help
people use hypnosis to connect
with what we could call
the higher self, the part of us
that knows everything about us,
that knows everything about
this life and even other lives.
So we pull in the concept of
the soul, basically, which
is real interesting and can
have a tremendous experience
for people who
connect with that.
>>LILOU: What happens
during the hypnosis exactly?
What allows this kind of
mental-- the running mind--
to stop and to hear
something else?
Even some other
voices or visions
from the past, or past life
experience-- what allows that?
>>CHABOT: We don't know.
I mean, exactly how it works.
Like, there's a lot of studies.
We know that when people are
in a certain state of mind
in hypnosis, the brain
wave changes, for example.
Like, there's going
to be a predominance
of alpha and theta brain
waves over beta brain waves,
generally speaking.
But what exactly
makes it such a--
it works, its not
very clear yet.
But we kind of know what
to do for it to work.
OK?
The different techniques.
But why it works exactly,
it's not really clear.
>>LILOU: So it's like
a big lab because I
remember interviewing
Dolores Cannon.
And she was just keeping on
experiencing and receiving
quite strange information.
Do you also receive that?
>>CHABOT: Sometimes.
Sometimes I do receive
really interesting-- I mean,
right now I don't
call it strange.
It's more like not
normal according
to everybody's ways of
thinking because apparently
the soul-- and that's what
Dolores Cannon comes out
in her session, as
well-- is that we
can incarnate on the Earth.
But there's also other
planets and stuff
like that, which
happens sometimes
that we have clients
from somewhere else.
>>LILOU: So what's
your understanding?
I know this is a huge question.
But on Gaiam TV,
there's a big community
with a lot of-- that
reads a lot, that
views a lot of movies.
They're really, really
connected and interested.
So what is your vision of
the universe, the cosmos?
What is this life--
this reality?
I know it's a huge question.
But what is your portion that
you're really interested in
and keep on-- because
you must have discovered
a lot through those
sessions and your studies
and having clients.
>>CHABOT: Well basically,
it's really the understanding
that even physical reality is
not as real as we think it is.
It's a projection of our
consciousness in some ways.
And what's really interesting
is the purpose behind all this.
Like, for example, what we
could call the soul contract
with a life mission.
OK?
Because everything
that we experience,
everything that we manifest
in our life or attract
has something for us to learn
to either help to know ourselves
better or to learn stuff
or to develop as a soul.
So the more I do
this work, the more
I understand the
big scheme behind it
all is really to grow
as a soul to understand
the multiple facets
of who we are.
So it's really about
the exploration
of who we really are.
Like, you've heard
the saying we're not
a human being having a
spiritual experience.
We're a spiritual being having
a human experience, which
is exactly when I guide
people into having
a hypnosis
experience, my goal is
to connect them
with this reality.
So that's not just
a rational belief
that they experience from their
heart whether their true nature
or who they were to help them
integrate all this to help them
achieve their life
mission because I've
done quite a lot of sessions.
And one thing that
really-- how do
you say this-- really
had a big impact on me
is that a lot of people sometime
at the end of their lives,
sometimes they felt guilty
or, oh, what a waste of time
because they were aware
of their life mission.
It was like, oh, once
again I did that mistake
or once again-- and even today
when a nurses or other people
accompany people at
the end of their lives,
there's also a lot of regrets.
So for me, the more I did this,
I was like, OK, what can I--
or how can I guide people
to access information that
are very important
in their lifetime
so when the time will come
to leave this plane again
they'll say good job?
So sometimes it can
be to face fears
or to dare to say something
or to be something
or to just follow your dream.
And there's many aspects
of the soul contract
because-- oh, you go first.
>>LILOU: I was going to say
so the incidence might not
have happened in this lifetime.
It may be other lifetimes.
So maybe we have come--
because some people say,
oh, when you arrive as a
baby, everything is good.
Everything is all right.
And then, through
human experience,
then there's those blockages.
And then disease
happen, what have you.
But we can also inherit
a lot from other lives.
>>CHABOT: Exactly.
There's some events that happens
from other lifetimes that
has an impact.
Some fears, for
example, some phobias.
Like I've had a Japanese
client, actually.
He came to see me.
It was real interesting.
He wanted to do a
past life regression.
But he was just saying, like, I
have this extreme fear of when
you turn on a gas stove,
he said, I can not do this.
And then so we did a session.
And at first I just asked to
go to the root of this fear
and there was nothing there.
We did the past life.
And at the end, I asked
the unconscious mind
would it be appropriate to
access the root of this fear.
And he went to another
past life where
he was-- like, there was a house
burning and stuff like this.
And he was giving a
lot of information.
And afterwards, the
fear was just gone.
Like, three days later, I was
sending him his MP3 because I
record everything.
And then he was like,
it's really weird.
It's really gone.
There's no fear there.
So it can help
relieve some fears,
understand some
karmic relationships.
Sometimes you have
someone in your life
that's been really mean
to you in some ways.
And you have a lot
of anger sometimes.
And then you go on
the other side--
although it's a
vibrational level.
It's not really
another side, you know?
>>LILOU: It's not
behind the curtain?
>>CHABOT: Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
And that's where people go and
they access information finding
out it was actually a
contract with that soul
to give them-- to have this
problematic or to be like this
or to have sometimes a
father that didn't love them
and stuff.
And you're like, hm, what
are the benefits of that?
It's oh, well, because I'm going
to live this experience it's
going to help me grow and
find more of my confidence
within myself.
And there's a lot of things
that come when we do this.
Yeah.
>>LILOU: So when
we see blockages,
it's really a matter of
hypnosis or not to ask ourselves
what are the benefits of this?
Why am I going through this?
Is there some questions
that we can already
start to ask ourselves?
>>CHABOT: Exactly.
Well, that's when some things,
like even in real life,
not in hypnosis, when some
things happen to us we can say,
OK, what can I learn from this?
Like, what does this
challenge enables
me to learn about
myself that I would not
have had the chance to learn
because we're creators.
We give meaning to what
happens because that's
what's really
interestingly, Lilou,
is that even though--
like, the soul contract,
there's some things that are
planned before we come here.
For example, our parents.
The body we're going to have.
OK?
There's even sometimes
illnesses or some situations,
stuff that happens.
But even though some
of this is planned,
we have our free
will to give meaning
to interpret what happens so we
can go through this experience.
We have the free will to give
the meaning that we want.
And that's where
the learning comes
from because you can have,
for example, an illness.
And you can live this
illness being a victim like,
oh my god, blah, blah, blah.
What did I do to deserve this?
And then you could have
a totally different
interpretation of it and
say, OK, this is on my path.
What does my soul-- What
can I learn through this
to grow, to become stronger,
to understand myself more?
And of course, and Bashar,
as I told you before,
explained this very clearly.
It's like, what you put
in is what you get back
because the energy
that you put inside
will define the result the
impact will have in your life.
For example, he
gives the example
of if you go for a
train and you miss it.
I don't want to-- you're
going to have your plane.
You're going to be fine.
>>LILOU: I'm flying
back out to Europe.
I'm not going to get it.
>>LILOU: It really is a train.
So you go to the train and
you miss it like five seconds.
And you could have the
reaction and say, oh my god,
this is so bad, it
always happens to me,
and just be in this
state of negativity
and really start to think
about what's going to happen
and all the things
that are bad about it.
Or you could just say,
OK, this happened.
Even though I have no idea why,
that there is something there
that's for my highest
good in some ways.
And just remain open
and say, OK, maybe I'm
going to meet someone that I
wouldn't have talked to that
is going to open
up an opportunity.
And you can clearly
see in this example,
like, what you get back
is totally different
because your state
of mind is different.
The way you observe the
environment is different.
And that's why, like, it's all
about changing our beliefs--
our lenses-- through
which we create reality
because Bruce Lipton talks a
lot about biology of beliefs.
And that's why the
hypnotherapy-- spiritual
hypnotherapy training
that I do is very based on
this to really identify
beliefs, changing beliefs
that changes our lens
because if I, for example, I
believe I don't deserve to
be happy, whatever you try,
if you have this belief
that's very strong,
there's going to
be a part of you
will not be able
to-- to receive that.
Or even if someone says I
don't deserve to be loved.
Even if you have a friend
that give you love,
you will say, oh, he's
trying to trick me.
You're not going to allow it in.
So that's why it's all about
becoming aware of beliefs
and changing them, which
is about like-- well,
spiritual hypnotherapy and
also the in between lives
spiritual hypnotherapy
that we do
to get another point
of view, basically,
on the experience
because we have the ego,
the physical self, and
then the higher self.
And sometimes it just
changes 190 degree-- 180.
Because if you think that your
grandfather who-- God knows
what-- did and you
had this anger.
And then you find
out and you feel it.
It's not like someone telling
you, oh, your grandfather--
like we experience it.
You feel it.
Inside it's just a big change.
And what was anger
before, with a bit of time
and understanding, it
even, at the highest level,
there's no forgiveness needed.
They just did their
part of the job.
So there's even gratitude when
you reach that stage, which
is really amazing
when you help someone
to really understand that.
>>LILOU: Tell us about some
of the scientific research
or the things being studied
to show how amazing-- how
beneficial the hypnosis is.
>>CHABOT: Yeah, Well basically
with hypnosis, especially
spiritual hypnotherapy,
there's not a lot done.
I mean, most of the
research in the field
has been done with
pain management.
That's why there's
a lot of doctors.
There's a lot of doctors--
like, Dr.Shelboney-- Iike
anesthetist, who--
or dentist who
learns hypnosis for the pain.
And it works very well.
So that's why.
But when we move in
the other fields,
like more spiritual things,
there's not a lot of things.
That's why it's real
interesting with Mario
because we're a bit
pioneers in that field.
We want to-- like I
mentioned to you yesterday,
we did-- we plugged
in a EEG client
with a little 20-- I
thing 19 or 21 electrodes.
And then we did a
past life regression.
And we had a live between
lives or in between lives
regression connecting
with a spiritual guide.
And so we're gonna
see what happens.
We want to see when
people access memories
from present life
regarding their past life.
Is it similar?
Like, we're just
exploring right now.
We don't have anywhere--
because a lot of people,
sometimes, they try to
say, OK, is hypnosis
a state that we can measure?
OK, this level of alpha.
This level of theta.
We don't see it
like this for now.
For now we just explore
is there anything changing
because it happened
to me because I
started doing some
research before.
And I was doing with GSR--
you know what GSR is?
Galvanic Skin Response.
What they use for
a lie detector.
OK?
And I was just
plugging the client
and observing what
happens because when
they have emotional
reactions because-- do
you know how it works?
>>LILOU: No, tell us.
Yes, yes.
>>CHABOT: It's
basically it measures
the electrodermal
activity in the skin.
So like lie detectors, when
you're really stressed,
well, it's going to peak.
If you're relaxed,
it's gonna go down.
So basically, I just wanted
to explore what happens.
And also sometimes when
people have an emotion
but they don't
physically show it.
Some people it's very obvious.
Some people they
don't show it as much.
So you can see it peak.
So it really surprises
people because you
go like-- you ask a question,
it just goes boom, and you say,
so what's happening now?
And they're like, what?
How did they know that.
So it's one way.
But what was really
intresting is that-- And that
doesn't happen to
all the clients
but it was significant
enough when I was-- when
the person connected with a
spiritual guide, each time
the guide was
answering a question,
it was just peaking in a
way that is not normal.
No, it's not
something like this--
The only way you can make
this is to either, like,
pinch yourself or to create--
to intentionally do something.
But it was really surprising.
So there's like little
anecdotal experiences
like this that are
very interesting.
>>LILOU: What is
not-- What is it not?
You know, if we don't
know exactly what it
is, what is it not?
>>CHABOT: That's a
very good question.
And the first thing when
I meet clients is just
to clarify what is
hypnosis, what it's not,
and what do you
need for it to work?
Like, what do you
need to understand?
In hypnosis, you don't
lose consciousness.
OK?
That's very important.
Some people-- they think
because of stage hypnosis,
because of movies they see
people sometimes waking
up and saying, oh my
god, what's happening?
That's because there's amnesia
happening at the moment.
But when you interview
someone on stage
and you ask them, so how was
it for you to be like this?
And most people say, like,
I felt really normal.
But there was just
something stronger
making me do it in some ways.
OK?
And when I do street
hypnosis, I have
a lot of fun doing
this sometimes
because I'm going
to take someone--
even a skeptical person--
I'm going to do something
very quickly, rapid
induction, eyes open, wide
awake, OK, and they're
with their friends.
And then I say,
OK, now honestly.
Do you believe
you're hypnotised?
And 80% of the time people
look a bit shy or embarrassed.
Well, no, I don't think so.
OK, now try to move your feet.
And they can't.
I say like, sincerely,
you're not trying to fake it
or to please me or to play.
Can you move your feet?
They can't.
And do you feel hypnotised?
No.
Why can't you?
They say I don't know.
So it's a-- I would say it's an
unconscious change of reality.
And that's why, like, it's
interesting with Anthony
Jacquin and Kevin Sheldrake
who did some research
and they came up with
the automatic imagination
model, which is basically
about understanding
that, in hypnosis, your
unconscious is imagining things
automatically.
OK?
So if I say you cannot stand up,
even if consciously you think
if you can't, there's a part
of you imagining that you
can't and this part has more
strength than the conscious
part because the unconscious
is much more powerful than
the conscious mind.
The imagination is
much more powerful
than the conscious mind.
So that's one thing.
You don't lose consciousness.
You're going to
remember what happens.
Sometimes people
forget some parts.
Sometimes it happens.
But I record everything,
especially when
we do spiritual past lives
so that they remember.
When we do hypnotherapy,
it's not necessarily
that we remember everything
because we want the unconscious
mind just to take it
in and organize it.
So there's this misconception.
Basically, yeah, I would say
that these are the main--
or that you lose
control that they
can make you do
anything you want.
>>LILOU: Where
you're manipulated.
>>CHABOT: Yeah, exactly.
And I say, yes, it's true.
No, I'm just kidding.
[LAUGHING]
>>LILOU: Give me your money.
>>CHABOT: But I tell
people-- I say, listen.
If it was true, all the
thieves would master hypnosis.
We would see this every
day in the newspaper.
Like, another one got
hypnotised to go--
there's a part of
us that protects us.
OK?
And when people say, well,
what about stage hypnosis?
What about these people?
First, they're volunteers.
They're not actors.
When people say, oh,
they were actors,
there's nothing worse for
a hypnotherapist-- no,
a stage hypnotist to have actors
because people are bad actors.
It's much better to have three
good subjects than 10 people
with seven trying to please
their friend or please you
or whatever.
So some people, they don't
even have a bad intention.
Like, they're not hypnotised
and the hypnotherapist--
the hypnotist has to spot
them and thank you very much
to keep the people.
So they're real.
OK?
And they're not acting.
But they're volunteers
to go there.
They know they're safe.
They know they're gonna--
They've heard that
they're probably going
to do some things funny,
so they're fine with it.
But if you hypnotize
someone and say,
OK, now give me your
money [BUZZER SOUND].
Like there's a little red
alarm that's going to come up.
>>LILOU: Because it's like
we can hear everything.
>>CHABOT: You can
hear everything, yeah.
And even like, it's
really funny, Lilou.
Sometimes when I
give suggestions, OK,
next time your eyes
are going to open,
it's going to be impossible
for you to say your name.
The more you're going
to try to say your name,
the less it's going to come out.
It's going to be really funny.
And when I say
this, I see people
smiling like, yeah right.
OK? [SNAP] Eyes open.
Wide awake.
So what's your name?
And people go like-- OK?
So even if you hear
everything, but you still
have to want it to happen.
As I tell people when I
brief them before, I say,
you have to want it to happen,
to be open for it to happen,
but when I ask you
to try something,
I want you to honestly try,
especially when I do research
because I don't
want people fake.
OK?
So they have to have on one
side, they want it to work.
They're open.
But on the other side, when I
ask them to test-- for example,
try to say your name or stand
up-- I want them to really try,
not to fake it.
>>LILOU: Why does it
not work on some people?
>>CHABOT: That's a
very good question.
There's a lot of--
there's different factors.
Some people-- I mean,
trust is important.
To have a feeling of-- if the
person is afraid, for example.
If they have misconception.
For example, some people--
>>LILOU: Because they could
be afraid to be hypnotized.
That could be a first
fear right there.
>>CHABOT: Yeah, exactly.
That's why the job
of a hypnotherapist
is just to clarify all the
fears at the beginning.
And you explain it and then you
ask them do you have any fears?
Do you have anything?
Some people, for example,
I would clarify anything,
at the end I'll say,
OK, now are you ready?
And they say, yeah.
I said, I kind of feel
that there's something.
So, my aunt told me, like,
it's related with the devil.
And I say, well, because
in religion there's stuff
like-- of course,
it's not true--
but it's been like-- hypnosis--
religion didn't like it.
So you have to clarify this.
It's fine.
They're totally safe.
OK?
So there's these fears.
And some people,
sometimes they say, like,
they're afraid
that they're going
to say things that
they don't want.
You're in control
of what you share.
OK?
Unless you give the suggestion,
like, in this direction.
But the way we work,
you just-- I ask people,
you're going to
be in a state were
you're going to have
access to more information
that you normally have.
But you always have the
freedom to share what you want.
So if you access something,
it's too personal, it's fine,
keep it to yourself.
The important thing is that
you have it to yourself.
But when I do past
life regression
and in between
lives, I ask people,
I say, like, I'm going to
ask you a lot of questions
so that we record it
so that later on you're
going to have it for you.
But if there's something
you want to keep,
that's totally fine for you.
>>LILOU: Where is that
information stored,
because some people talk about
akashic records to past life.
Where is it?
Is it in a cloud?
[LAUGHING]
>>CHABOT: I can say like the
cloud version of internet
today?
Yeah, it's connected with
the akashic memories.
As we know now or
what the science seems
to tell us about memory,
especially with Dr. Charbonnet,
like what he does
when people, like,
they are supposed to
be dead and they're out
and they access information.
They see things so they
have-- and Mario Beauregard
talks about it, as well--
they have a sense of identity.
They have memory.
They have emotions.
And then when they
come back-- so
there was not one neuron that
was moving in their brain.
And they still have memory.
They still have this
sense of identity.
So it's as if a
part of you-- of us,
basically, is just a receiver
or access this information,
which is not in our brain.
>>LILOU: Even for people
wanting to-- that are smoking
and they want to stop smoking?
That's also an information
that is outside
or could some be stored
in our body and others
out depending on the issue?
>>CHABOT: There's
nothing in the body.
It's as if there's a--
>>LILOU: It's important
to talk about it.
>>CHABOT: Yeah, yea, yeah.
>>LILOU: This is not
too clear for us.
>>CHABOT: Yeah, it's a
field of consciousness.
And when you're open
to spirituality,
you basically have this
framework that you want to use
people's-- let's call
them-- challenges.
Whether it's stop smoking or
anything that they have like--
I don't know, like
biting nails or whatever.
You know?
So you could do
work just with that.
But I want to use
these challenges to act
as a springboard in
their spiritual life
so that the changes that
they're going to make
is going to be really
helpful in others' fears.
And that's a bit
where I would say
the way I do hypnotherapy will
differ from other kinds of more
classic kinds of hypnotherapy,
which they will say,
for example, OK, if
you're a good subject,
now you're a non-smoker.
You hate smoking.
Tasting smoke is bad.
You forgot you ever
smoked in your life, OK?
With a very good subject, this
could work and could maybe even
last a long time.
But from my point of view, my
perspective, every challenges
we should grow from
this experience.
So even when I do
hypnosis, I'm going
to ask the unconscious
mind to make it such
that it's going to be
easier to stop smoking
but the individual will
have to put in the effort
because when you put
effort, you feel proud.
You connect with
resources inside of you,
which are transferable to
other aspects of your life.
So we want to help it but
we don't-- it's not a way
of, like, programming
and deprogramming
and reprogramming.
It's just really to
help in an organic way
to connect with what's
important-- all the resources--
so that they make the change
and that they feel proud
about themselves.
>>LILOU: There's
still free will.
>>CHABOT: There is still free
will and they're responsible.
It's not like sometimes people
come and say, OK, talk to me.
You know, I want to get
rid of this problem.
Go do the job.
Go in my brain.
I don't care what
you do, just do it.
OK?
And I don't work like
this because it's
a interactive process.
It's a dance.
And people have to be
involved in the process
and do the action plans.
Like, we do stuff and then
they have a spiritual practice
or they put in
action some things
to really integrate the change.
So it's a feedback--
like we say, OK,
how did it go-- to help
people be more complete.
Yeah, basically.
>>LILOU: What is
your personal story
that brought you to hypnosis?
>>CHABOT: Ah.
That's a long story.
>>LILOU: What is your growth
to spiritual awakening?
>>CHABOT: OK.
>>LILOU: Have you always been
interested by these topics?
>>CHABOT: Actually,
when I was 16,
I had an out of body experience.
I was really interested
about-- well,
I had a friend who talked
to me about spiritual stuff.
Like, Ramtha was the first
book I read awhile ago.
And then "De Memoire
D'Essenien" from Daniel Meurois,
which is an amazing book.
So then I was doing
out of body experience.
I was like, oh my god,
I have to learn this.
I went to get a
book, and I studied,
I practiced a technique
during the whole day,
and it happened in the night.
So I actually left
my body and saw--
and which was really interesting
is that when I left my body,
I had the feeling-- usually
I would have been like,
oh my god, this is cool.
You know, you're 16 years old.
But I felt more like an
expansion of the mind
as I was more myself
outside than inside.
And I remember the thought was
like, huh, I'm aware of it now.
It wasn't like, oh, cool.
And then I went to the
kitchen, went through the door.
And it's really
different from a dream.
Like, when people
say, well, how do
you know it's not--
When you experience it,
it's like apples and oranges.
You know.
It's really clear.
And then at some point I was
rehearsing a visualization.
Basically, I didn't
drink all day.
OK?
And I was visualizing
drinking water.
And when I drink water
to remember myself,
that I am to become aware
so that I'm out of the body
so that was like the
gist of the technique.
So it's as if like, by
default, I went in the kitchen,
I went to the glass of
water, but when I drank,
I got beamed up in some
kind of astral hospital
where I met beings.
>>LILOU: Who did you meet?
>>CHABOT: No, it was
just like light beings
or really wise beings.
And there was like
some kind of doctor
who-- I don't really
usually tell this.
Keep this a secret.
[LAUGHING]
>>LILOU: This is a great
community to share it with.
>>CHABOT: Yeah, and
what I remember was he
kind of had bigger
eyes in some ways.
But he was telling
me a lot of stuff.
And he was telling me stuff
about my mom would be sick.
And just a lot of stuff,
which was really interesting
because my mom wasn't sick.
And the next morning--
the ambulance.
We had to call the ambulance.
So there was a--
>>LILOU: So the timing
was pretty perfect.
That often happens with
those kind of paranormal
or whatever we call
it but anyway, you
know a different
kind of experience.
>>CHABOT: So that's
why, basically, it's
this experience that-- at
16 years old-- I understood,
which like for me today, I
don't remember the whole thing.
But it just opened
up inside of me
knowing that there's much
more out there than what
seems to be the case.
There's other dimensions.
Other ways of-- Other levels
of realities, basically.
>>LILOU: That's pretty
young to be aware of that.
>>CHABOT: Yeah.
>>LILOU: What did
you do with it then?
Did you start studying
or you curiosity was--
>>CHABOT: Well
actually, this kind of
triggered a really intense
desire to learn about humans.
>>LILOU: Everything
about everything.
>>CHABOT: Yeah, but what
really interested me the most
and I did my thesis on this--
my master's degree thesis--
on interpersonal change.
How we change.
How human beings evolve
different paradigms of change.
And this is where when I did
literature [SPEAKING FRENCH]
literature?
>>LILOU: Mm, that's one that--
[LAUGHING]
>>LILOU: A review!
>>CHABOT: A review like
when you do research,
you just read a lot
of stuff, basically.
So in the literature.
And there were some, of course,
articles about hypnosis being
an interesting
modality to change.
And then-- like
very short story.
And then later on
after my master's, I
was in China for five years
doing corporate training,
teaching presentation skills,
confidence building skills,
and stuff like that,
communication skills.
And then I started
integrating in hypnosis.
But I hadn't had any
training, formal training.
So when I was in
Beijing, I decided
to do my first
training in California.
And this is where, even though
it was a normal hypnotherapy
training, the
teacher-- the trainer--
basically was also doing
spiritual hypnotherapy
to connect with the soul.
And it was real interesting.
It was Cal Bannon.
And what's really interesting
about Cal is that all his life
he was just the normal
clinical hypnotherapist.
He wouldn't talk about guides
or past lives and all this.
And then about eight
years later-- in 2008
anyway-- he started to
be famous, didn't care,
and then he started
to say, you know what?
When I did hypnotherapy,
I used to go back
before the incarnation
to go back in because
if you have a problem so you go
back even before and say, OK,
what can we learn from this?
Was there a reason for
this or blah, blah,
blah to go get some
learnings about the mission.
So that's where I was
like, oh interesting.
And then I learned
Michael Newton's work.
OK?
So I started to, basically,
train with all the big guys
whether it's the Newton
Institute, Brian Wise, Dolores
Cannon, and went to Tom
Silver at some point.
And I just went to study all
the golden nuggets, basically,
and just created my own approach
and started teaching people
about it.
>>LILOU: What's
still, to this day,
the most surprising thing
about this whole adventure?
>>CHABOT: The most
surprising thing?
I mean, each time--
>>LILOU: That you're
still like, just, wow.
>>CHABOT: I mean, just
yesterday, Lilou, you know,
when you have a client
which connects with a guide
and just has this really
strong vibrational energy
and telling him.
And you see the client is just
like really-- what's the word?
>>LILOU: Emotional?
>>CHABOT: Moved; touched.
And it really integrates.
Like, Mario, Joanne
his wife was there.
The cameramen.
We were all like chills.
Like there's really stuff
that's-- each time for me
it's becoming normal.
OK?
But when I see or
what will impress
me is also always stuff like
from more evolved beings
or people coming sometimes
from other planets-- a bit
similar to Dolores Cannon.
It doesn't happen often.
But when it happens
it's like, huh.
Especially it's like, when it's
really normal people like you
and me and they're like,
whoa, what was that?
Did I imagine that?
And then we do another
session and they just
give a lot of details and stuff.
And what's important
when people say, well,
how do you know it's true?
How do you know it's not?
And I tell people, on one
level, the important thing
is that there's
a reason why this
happened and not something else.
And what's important is to
learn from it because even
if the mind just
created a metaphor
to help you release a fear or
do something that helps you
and you're better, who cares?
You know?
But I did have some clients, of
course, that we went on Google
and checked out some information
and really interesting stuff.
Like, I mean, I
could talk about this
but it's real interesting
when you verify information
and the person is like, whoa.
You know?
It's like stuff
like he was living
in a-- Just a quick example.
Do we have time?
>>LILOU: Mm hm.
>>CHABOT: Yeah?
OK.
Quick example, this guy was
living in a village in France.
It was Chapelle-Glain which is
like 1,000 people or something.
You know?
And it was really
interesting because the guy
before, he was really stressed.
He was like, I'm not afraid
of what I'm going to access.
It's I'm afraid it's
not going to work.
I'm like, everybody says that.
You're fine.
You know, just follow
the suggestions.
It's going to be good.
And the guy was a
really good subject.
And he was like in-- So all
the information, his wife, five
kids, everything was
coming really quickly.
And he was calling it
though Chapelle-Glain.
And then we found it
was Chapelle-Glain.
The church-- he looked
at the church and was
like, oh my god, this
is really familiar.
The next lifetime he was like
an American Indian person.
And I said what's the
name of the tribe?
He said, Swampy Cree,
which he never heard.
He said, but our tipis
are not like triangular.
They were a bit
like round shapes.
So afterwards we go on Google,
and we find Swampy Cree's.
And he was looking at it.
So when you verify stuff
like this, it's interesting.
But for me, the most
interesting is the healing
or the liberation that really
happens when we do this work.
>>LILOU: Even on pains
or physical problems?
>>CHABOT: It happens sometimes.
It happens sometimes.
Like, we're never
going to advertise it
or we can't say that we heal.
It's just sometimes that
people are free, sometimes,
from problems.
But I would never
recommend that someone--
like, for me, it's a compliment.
Like if you have an illness,
you stay with your doctor,
you do this.
But you can do this
as a complement
to help you understand it
and change your view of it--
your understanding of it.
But sometimes, yeah,
I did have people
who had pain and then something
just-- like for example--
like a really big knee pain.
OK?
And then I was like, with
the guides, sometimes
it's really interesting.
You just ask the guides, is
there something you can do?
And they say, sure.
And the guy said, OK, I just
feel this energy on my knee
and I see images.
And I was like, oh,
what kind of images?
He said there's images of money,
of this person, of that person,
like, and then we
can make clinks
like memories, cellular
memory or something.
And afterward, he was
moving like, whoa.
The pain is gone in some
way, so stuff happens.
Like, reality is really
more complex and beautiful,
and I would even dare to
say-- maybe not magical--
but in some way there's
really something that's
really fascinating
about all this.
>>LILOU: Last little thing-- on
autohypnosis, self- hypnosis.
>>CHABOT: Yeah, self-hypnosis.
For me, I had an illness.
So I used self-hypnosis
to really--
it was supposed to
be incurable illness.
Scleroderma.
And I really used it,
basically,-- self-hypnosis--
to help get better basically.
So there's different ways.
You could go see a
hypnotherapist who
does a session with you and
then gives you a way to go back.
Or you can practice
it by yourself.
There's different books
or different things
you can say or do inside
of you to get in the state
and then you can do
some visualization,
which is extremely powerful.
Like, the neuro science
of visualization.
The brain doesn't make a
difference between what's real
and imagined.
So there's this aspect.
Or it can be affirmations.
There can be like, to
connect with the feeling,
I stress the emphasis on
really feeling and Bashar talks
about this really clearly,
which is really interesting.
He said, the visualization,
it doesn't really matter.
The visualization is
basically a pretext
to feel the emotion
of what it will
be like when you're
healed; when you're good.
And then your higher
self takes this feeling
and then finds ways to
manifest this in some ways.
But self-hypnosis is
really interesting.
And a lot of people
I would recommend.
Even if you have an operation,
hypnosis before the operation
and afterwards to
help with healing.
I did stuff for
people close to me.
And MP3s.
MP3s is a really
good way to just
to learn to be guided
because the biggest
difficulty with
self-hypnosis is,
if you don't do it with
anything, it's possible.
You know, I've done it.
But it's just a part of
you has to guide yourself
and a part of you has
to have the experience.
You have to keep track.
OK, I'm doing this.
Whereas, if you have a
hypnotherapist or MP3, you
just-- you don't
have to guide it.
You just follow.
>>LILOU: Relax, sure.
>>CHABOT: You just relax,
follow suggestions.
That's all you have to do.
So it's all possible.
It's just different options.
>>LILOU: Last little
thing that you
want to leave us with or
just a call to action or just
something that you
think is important?
A message for people
watching that's-- you know.
>>CHABOT: A message
for people watching?
Well, I would say--
>>LILOU: Like to
encourage us in our lives?
You know, sometimes life
can be a little challenging!
So is there a word of
wisdom for us today?
>>CHABOT: Oh, a little pressure.
[LAUGHING]
>>LILOU: Some channeling!
Just bring it on!
>>CHABOT: I mean, for me it
just comes back, I would say,
to really realizing that
we're a special being having
a human experience.
And whatever happens
in our lives,
nothing can make us feel bad.
There's no events,
there's no person
that can make us feel bad.
We interpret.
We give meaning to
what's happening
and that's our free will.
And to really have this self
awareness to develop this--
when something happens to say,
OK, this is-- thank you life.
Even if it's really difficult.
When you say, OK,
there's something
that I can learn from this.
And you just realize that,
basically, whatever happens,
you're in control.
You know, happiness.
If you're in control
of how you interpret,
how you give meaning
to things, you're
going to stop to
try to change people
or to just be happy if
you have this or if that.
So I would say to really to
develop this self awareness
that we give the meaning.
And the meaning that we give
will determine the effect
that we give back.
And that's where
it really starts
to be really interesting.
>>LILOU: Thank
you, Jean-Charles.
>>CHABOT: My pleasure, Lilou.
>>LILOU: It was delicious
conversation here.
Thank you all the
Gaiam TV community
for watching this video.
I send you much, much love
from Montreal, Quebec.
It was a pleasure.
Delicious conversation.
>>CHABOT: My pleasure, Lilou.
>>LILOU: Much, much love.
Bye-bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]